So he has our sample network.
We have brought a one with IP address 10 1 1 1 on first Ethan and 0 0 10 1 2 1 1 Serial 1 slash 0 which
is connected to our 2 or 2 is configured with 10 1 2 2 on Serial 1 slash 0 and 10 1 3 1 on Serial 1
slash 1 or 3 is configured with 10 1 3 2 on Serial 1 slash 0 and 10 1 4 1.
On first Ethan it's 0 0 or 1 and all three are connected via another serial link and all configured
with addresses 10 1 5 1 on r 1 and 10 1 5 2 on 3.
Please note that the links feed of the serial links have been set to 128 kilobytes per second so on
Rado 1 show run interface Serial 1 select 0 will allow us to see the configuration in C it's got an
IP address and the bandwidth has been configured two hundred twenty eight kilobytes per second
the same information can be viewed on Serial 1 Select one IP address with bandwidth show IP protocols
will allow me to see that no routing protocols have been enabled on this Rada so going to global configuration
mode I can now enable respect by copying the command Rata 0 SPF and specifying a process I.D..
Once again this process I.D. is local to the Rada and does not have to be the same on all of the routers
it's on Rado 1 I'm going to specify one topping the command to show IP protocols will allow me to see
which routing protocols I enable and as you can see here oh SPF is enabled with process IP 1 and the
Rada is set to 10 1 5 1 however topping the command to show IP OSP it interfaces will allow me to see
that 0 SPF is not enabled on any interfaces on the Rada 0 SPF will not form neighbor relationships and
will not exchange rates for neighbor relationships to be established and for rods to be advertised you
need to type the command network and then specify a network so I could specify ten dot 1 don't want
of 1 the IP address of the foster Ethan at 0 0 interface and then I can specify a wildcard mosque.
This is an inverse mosque similar to an access list with zero in binary means match and one in binary
means ignore.
So this is an exact match on that IP address.
Oh SPF will only be enabled on Fost Ethan at 0 0.
You then need to specify an area and in this case I'm going to specify area zero.
The area can be specified as a decimal value in this range all inducted decimal IP address format.
We're just going to specify the area as area zero.
Now topping the come on do show IP OSP if interface allows me to see that 0 SPF is enabled on Fost Ethan
at 0 0 the IP address on that interface is 10 1 1 1 slash 24.
And the area that that interface is being put into is air is zero.
You can see once again that the process ideas 1 the router ideas 10 1 5 1 and the network type is broadcast
because Foss Ethan at 0 0 is Ethan it always being SPF will see this as a broadcast media.
The cost is 1.
Once again referring back to the OSP formula 100 make link will have a cost of 1.
Notice the property is set to 1 which is the default.
There is no designated road on this network the hello interval is 10 seconds the date interval is 40
seconds.
So a lot of information can be gathered just through the single command topping the command again notice
we have become the designated Radha our Radha ideas 10 1 5 1 and the designated Radha IP is 10 1 5 1.
In other words it's us.
Notice the interface ip address is 10 1 1 1 which is the IP address on this.
Ethan it interface on Ethan it as explained Rodders will go through an election to determine the designated
Radha and Beckett designate who wrote it and that election has now taken place with our local Rada becoming
the designated Rada because there is no other Rada on this segment.
So we are the defacto designated Rada always SPF however has not been enabled on the serial once left
zero interface and cereal once less one interface.
So let's do that now.
I can top that come on network don't one or two to one the IP address of serial 1 slash 0.
Once again put in my wildcard mask once again put in my area now stopping the come on show IP SPF interface
allows me to see that oh SPF is enabled on cereal one select zero as well as fast Ethan at zero slash
zero hitting spacebar shows me that oh SPF is not enabled on any other interfaces.
So once again network Ten dot 1 5 1 wildcard mask and our area will enable 0 SPF on the serial 1 slash
1 interface show IP SPF interface shows me that oh SPF is now enabled on 0 1 slash 1 0 1 slept 0 as
well as Fost Ethan it 06 0 thing that come on again allows me to see information relating to the serial
interfaces.
Notice that on both serial interfaces the process idea is one as you would expect the Rada idea is 10
1 5 1 as you would expect the network type however is point to point out SPF is intelligent enough to
realize that this is a point to point link and thus the OSP if time is set to point to point.
Notice the cost is 7 8 1 which is the cost of one hundred twenty eight kilohertz per second link.
Once again the hollow interval is 10 seconds.
The date interval is 40 seconds but what you won't see here is designated Rada and backup designated
Rada.
There is no need for an election on a point to point link because there are only two Rod is communicating
with each other.
So no election has taken place but just to give you the full syntax of commands.
Control Zed show IP OSP.
Interface shows me the interfaces that OSP is enabled on.
Show IP protocols will allow me to see the writing protocols enabled on this Rada and as you can see.
Yeah OSP if one has been enabled the Rada ideas for the local road is 10 1 5 1.
The number of areas configured on this routing is 1 with 1 normal area.
No stub areas and no not so stubby areas.
Stubborn not so stubby areas or special tops of O's.
If areas used to reduce the number of rocks in the routing table the maximum number of paths that we
will load balance across by default is 4.
But that could be changed to 16.
We are opting for the following networks 10 1 1 1 10 1 2 1 10 1 5 1.
Notice the mosques we have specified the individual IP addresses.
When we entered the network command the reference bandwidth is 100 megabits per second which is the
default.
The administrative distance of 0 SPF is 110.
Topping the command show IP route shows me that I only have directly connected ruts in my writing table.
The reason why is we have not enabled SPF 1 rout at 2 and root at 3.
So we are not receiving rots from either of those Rod I can top that.
Come on show IPO SPF which gives me a lot of information relating to the OSP process running on this
Rada.
Once again process one is being enabled the Rada ideas 10 1 5 1.
We can see timers and statistics like this for instance initial SPF schedule delay 5000 milliseconds
the Rada will wait 5 seconds before running the SPF algorithm when notified of a network going down
or a new network that's been added to the topology.
The idea of this is to allow the network to stabilize before running the OSP algorithm notice the minimum
hold time between two consecutive SPF algorithm calculations is 10 seconds.
So in other words we will not run the SPF algorithm continuously.
There is a gap of 10 seconds between calculations we can see that the backbone area Zero has been enabled
in this Rada and three interfaces have been put into this area.
No authentication has been enabled on this area and we lost.
Executed the SPF algorithm about five minutes ago and it executed three times so let's enable OSB from
Ra to t and see how the output changes in order to show IP interface brief will allow me to see the
interfaces configured on this rather.